---
layout: base
title: "Project"
---

## Objectives

The DOMAIN project is an ambitious initiative that seeks to revolutionize the field of computing through the
integration of heterogeneous systems. Our objective is to harness the diversity of modern computing units - from CPUs
and GPUs to specialized processors - and to develop a full-stack approach that empowers domain experts across various
fields. By focusing on Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs), we aim to create a seamless and efficient programming
environment, reducing the complexity and enhancing the performance of applications in heterogeneous computing
ecosystems.

### Scientific and Technological Methodology

The DOMAIN project is based on a **full-stack approach** that integrates the entire computing ecosystem, from the
application layer to the hardware layer. The project will develop new _DSLs_ and _compiling toolchains_, software
_runtime
environments_, and _operating system supports_. The goal is to allow domain experts to efficiently code applications,
leveraging the full potential of these complex architectures **with minimal technical involvement**.

We are creating the support to design sophisticated DSLs that provide high-level, _semantically-rich programming
abstractions_. These DSLs are designed to be intuitive for domain experts, allowing them to focus on their field of
expertise without needing in-depth knowledge of the underlying hardware complexities.

The DSLs will be supported by dedicated **compiling toolchains** and **runtime environments**. These are aimed at
optimizing
the execution of applications written in these DSLs across various **heterogeneous platforms**. By doing so, we ensure
that
the applications not only run efficiently but also effectively leverage the full potential of the underlying hardware.

### Overall Strategy

The overall strategy for the DOMAIN project is deeply rooted in a technical and methodical approach, focusing on the
intricate challenges posed by heterogeneous computing environments. At the forefront is the development of a robust,
full-stack system that seamlessly integrates with the complex landscape of modern computing architectures. This strategy
emphasizes the creation of advanced Domain-Specific Languages (DSLs) and the corresponding compiling toolchains, which
are tailored to maximize the efficiency of these diverse systems.

Central to our strategy is the innovation in software runtime environments and operating system support. This includes
fine-tuning operating systems to better manage and utilize the full capabilities of heterogeneous platforms, ensuring
optimal performance and resource allocation. The approach is iterative and responsive, adapting to the rapid
advancements in hardware and software technologies.

The project also dedicates a significant portion of its resources to rigorous testing and validation. This ensures that
the solutions developed are not only theoretically sound but also practical and effective in real-world scenarios. By
continuously refining our methods and tools based on feedback and performance metrics, DOMAIN aspires to pioneer a new
era in computing where complexity is no longer a barrier but an asset for technological advancement and innovation.

## Consortium

<div class="row">
    {% include picbox.html
        picture="assets/images/torve.png"
        title="Tor Vergata University of Rome"
        text="The University of Rome Tor Vergata, located in the southeastern suburbs of Rome, Italy, is a public research university known for its modern approach to higher education and research. Founded in 1982, it has established itself as an institution committed to fostering an international environment and promoting interdisciplinary studies. Tor Vergata is renowned for its strong emphasis on scientific research, offering a diverse range of programs in fields like Engineering, Medicine, Economics, and the Sciences."
    %}
    {% include picbox.html
        picture="assets/images/iasi.png"
        title="IASI-CNR"
        text="The IASI-CNR Institute, short for the Institute of Systems Analysis and Computer Science \"Antonio Ruberti\", is a prestigious research institution in Rome, Italy, operating under the National Research Council (CNR). Renowned for its groundbreaking work in computer science and systems analysis, the institute focuses on a wide array of research areas including bioinformatics, algorithmic mathematics, and artificial intelligence. It plays a pivotal role in advancing computational science both in Italy and internationally, collaborating extensively with academic and industrial partners."
    %}
    {% include picbox.html
        picture="assets/images/roma3.png"
        title="Roma 3 University of Rome"
        text="Roma Tre University, located in Rome, Italy, is a dynamic and rapidly growing academic institution known for its dedication to excellence in education and research. Established in 1992, it has quickly risen to prominence, offering a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate programs across disciplines like Humanities, Engineering, Law, Economics, and Sciences. The university is celebrated for its vibrant campus life, strong community engagement, and commitment to fostering an inclusive and innovative learning environment."
    %}
</div>

